This is a [http://gniw.ca/32pigeons 32 Pigeons] project.

==Status==
===Encoder===
The encoder should now be able to output Grade 1 UEB;
however, it is not a full encoder and not all characters are supported.

Grade 2 is not supported,
which might be a serious issue in this project
in the sense that
it will take far too long for any Grade 1–encoded message to be sent.
However, on the issue of Grade 2,
there is also the (in a general sense much more important) problem that
UEB seems to be more semantic than Unicode
and at this point I really doubt automatic translation
from Unicode text (or even Unicode HTML or even DAISY) to UEB is possible.
If you have something to comment on this
please leave your comments on [http://incd.ambroseli.ca/node/51 my blog].

===Decoder===
It looks like we will need a decoder.

===Dot manipulation routines===
We can map a braille cell into a list of dots.
But we cannot yet do the reverse.

===Planner/Scheduler===
This is further into the future,
although this is just as urgent as the rest of the pieces.

==Gaps==
===Tests===
Tests are missing in some testable modules,
and some functions
(that are currently in that temporary file called foo.php)
need to be properly pulled into files so that they can be tested.

===AJAX===
It now looks like we will soon need
* a server-side scheduler/messaging daemon,
* a server-side AJAX responder, and
* some client-side AJAX code.
which means some of the temporary code in foo.php
will soon need to be rewritten in Javascript.

===Interprocess communications===
There is also the more fundamental problem
of how the different pieces of software can communicate between each other.
We need to do this in a way that will not cause message loss
(even if we encounter heavy traffic conditions, for example).

==Bibliography==

Round Table on Information Access for People with Print Disability,
&
[http://www.iceb.org/ International Council on English Braille].
(2010).
''The Rules of Unified English Braille.''
Retrieved
from
[http://www.iceb.org/The%20Rules%20of%20Unified%20English%20Braille20100617.pdf http://&#8203;www.&#8203;iceb.&#8203;org/&#8203;The&#8203;%20&#8203;Rules&#8203;%20&#8203;of&#8203;%20&#8203;Unified&#8203;%20&#8203;English&#8203;%20&#8203;Braille&#8203;2010&#8203;06&#8203;17&#8203;.&#8203;pdf]

''SimpleTest: Unit Testing for PHP.''
(n.d.).
Retrieved
February 8, 2013
from
[http://www.simpletest.org/ http://&#8203;www.simpletest.org/]

